And the way Collecting the data is really the biggest
NOTE CONF
challenge in a lot of cases, right, especially with label
data.
NOTE CONF
Right, so using last week's analogy, we talked about using
Apple, right, if you have a 100 apple, you've got
NOTE CONF
the dimension of each of those apples, size and the
retinas, and then taste those 100 apples and determine if
NOTE CONF
it's tasty or not.
Right, and then subsequently with that with that set of
NOTE CONF
data, which is a labelled data, then you can train
a potentially a machine learning algorithm that predicts, you know,
NOTE CONF
in the next 100, um, apples, whether or not it's
tasty or not.
NOTE CONF
Collecting that is obviously a challenge, um, but then in,
in the sense, right, if you develop this algorithm correctly,
NOTE CONF
it can actually self-modify, right, which is really the benefit
of why machine learning is really the um the approach
NOTE CONF
to a lot of this uh modern day challenges.
So I talked about the uh it depends on data
NOTE CONF
set, right, generating good data set, representative data set is
really the challenge, um.
NOTE CONF
And then we talked about the um the the training
process, right, for a supervised set of data, you need
NOTE CONF
about, you know, a good 60 to 80% of your
data set.
NOTE CONF
Now depending on the number of roles you have, um,
to, to be used as training and then and the
NOTE CONF
remaining to be used as a verification.
There are other ways of um getting more efficiency around
NOTE CONF
your existing data set, right, so those are things like
the Kal approach, um, the KO cross validation where you
NOTE CONF
chunk them into, into bits, and then you you evolve
it around.
NOTE CONF
So imagine 20% of your data set, you know, being
the testing and then the, the remaining 80 is your,
NOTE CONF
is your training.
And then you slowly move that little window across, and
NOTE CONF
you could get some better um generalisation uh out of
that process.
NOTE CONF
Now this is to really avoid the, the common problem
of over and underfitting in all your algos, right?
NOTE CONF
If you fit it too closely to every single data
point, then you capture the signal and the noise, right,
NOTE CONF
if you underfit that too much, then you don't get
the signal, you just get the noise.
NOTE CONF
So really all this is a fine balance between.
How much you you used to, you know, how much
NOTE CONF
of your limited data set you use to train, and
then how, what's the best efficiency you can get to
NOTE CONF
a good enough model that can predict most of the
cases with high degrees of accuracy.
NOTE CONF
Um, we talked about categorization, right, as a, as a
model category, um, so basically putting things into class, right,
NOTE CONF
and most situations when you determine, uh, classes, they can
be thought through as a binary system, either good or
NOTE CONF
not good or not good yet, right, and then you
sub to fight that problem set into further uh binary
NOTE CONF
um sorting methods.
Uh, we talked about confusion matrix, right, uh, and how
NOTE CONF
to evaluate the performance of each of those, um, models
that you create, right?
NOTE CONF
So, namely you have, you have scoring factors such as
the accuracy, specificity, recall values, and sensitivity, um, and really
NOTE CONF
using all those to compute the, uh, ROC curve, and
the area under the curve is really then what you're
NOTE CONF
looking at post that point.
Uh, generally speaking, F1 scores is a better way of
NOTE CONF
getting a fine balance between precision and recall, right, so
recall, remember that we talked about, uh, the F1 score
NOTE CONF
being the harmonic average of those values, and you want
to have a system that can, you know, not give
NOTE CONF
too many false values or false positive, um, but yet
selective enough.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So that's really your job.
NOTE CONF
As a machine scientist or machine engineer or whatever, right?
Um, to go through that process and apply the thinking
NOTE CONF
and the selectivity and the judgement behind your model creation.
So whilst that, you know, everything can be automated now
NOTE CONF
and very much so when you do your project, that
will be what kind of is expected as well, right?
NOTE CONF
You use a lot of packages, you pull out from
the libraries, but then the determination comes from you guys.
NOTE CONF
So, you know, if you don't have a good understanding
of the problem set, Then really you don't know what
NOTE CONF
you're really working with, OK?
Just a recap, this is the the table that we
NOTE CONF
used to create the ROC curve effectively.
Um, you can see the, the colour shade shaded boxes,
NOTE CONF
right, remembering that there's a ground truth, right, whether or
not something's tasty or not in that Apple example, um,
NOTE CONF
and then your model predicting if it, if that's true
or not.
NOTE CONF
So you will have two situations where it can predict
correctly, right, true positive, or it can predict correctly in
NOTE CONF
the negative sense, right?
And then conversely, you have the false positive and false
NOTE CONF
negative.
Under under certain circumstances, you do not want to have,
NOTE CONF
Um, I mean the cost of, the cost of false
prediction is a lot higher than others, right, so I'd
NOTE CONF
often use the medical um situation where you think someone
has uh cancer, but just because that false positive situation,
NOTE CONF
um.
You know, result in them being hospitalised and being biopsied
NOTE CONF
and everything else.
So the cost for mislabeling is quite high compared to
NOTE CONF
just a sales process on Amazon, you know, bad recommendation
for a product placement, right, so those are pretty low
NOTE CONF
cost environment, you wanna optimise it for a very different
reasons.
NOTE CONF
Now the optimisation process and the threshold, there was uh
some question yes um from last time, like, you know,
NOTE CONF
how do you determine this?
Well, remember that we basically, Assign a probability, right, to
NOTE CONF
an outcome based on a certain math equation, right, from
the training of the data set.
NOTE CONF
The threshold of that is then capped between 0 and
1, right?
NOTE CONF
And depending on that probability, you can class it as
either class 1 or class 2.
NOTE CONF
Now you set that boundary, basically that is the threshold
value.
NOTE CONF
And there was a bit of confusion as to how
that threshold value was, was basically being modified, right, and
NOTE CONF
that's your job to so I go, OK, well, in
the default case, it is 0.5, right?
NOTE CONF
In a situation where I get a value that says,
you know, 0.7, well then it must be in the
NOTE CONF
latter class, right, between class 1 and class 2.
Because it's greater than 0.5, so you yourself, you know,
NOTE CONF
round the 2.
but you can also set it so then it's not
NOTE CONF
0.5, it's 0.3, it's 0.8, which has a higher criteria,
you know, you need to be more certain before you
NOTE CONF
class that as.
So, we've moved away from a deterministic approach to seeing
NOTE CONF
a lot of these problem sets and problems to a
more probabilistic one where there's a confidence interval.
NOTE CONF
Right, you know, you're kind of sure versus you're really
sure, makes a big difference in, in how you determine
NOTE CONF
whether or not, you know, that the apple is tasty
or not, right?
NOTE CONF
So that's a, that's a bit of a, um, gear
shift in terms of mindset in in determining things.
NOTE CONF
Um, you can see that with the variables, you can
basically get a lot of different, uh, decision boundaries, right?
NOTE CONF
So here's 4 different graphs of different colours.
Just based on using different models, right, you can reclassify
NOTE CONF
some of those thoughts in a very different way.
So what is the correct way, right, that's really the
NOTE CONF
challenge, especially at those boundary conditions.
So that, that comes down with trial and error unfortunately,
NOTE CONF
um, and perhaps, you know, there will be systems where
you want an ensemble of those those criteria to then
NOTE CONF
give you a better response.
Um, the, the curve here, the purple curve on the
NOTE CONF
ROC curve.
You can see that it's the perfect situation where it's
NOTE CONF
on the edge, but that never occurs.
So in reality, all the actual curves has a knee
NOTE CONF
point, right, between certain, um, between a certain range of
threshold, you know, certain determination would be, would be more
NOTE CONF
probable, um, and obviously at the very diagonal layer, you
just have a random classifier, which doesn't actually give you
NOTE CONF
any true information, it's pretty much a flip of a
coin.
NOTE CONF
OK, so, um, this week, week 3, now.
I was going to talk about, um, the activities that
NOTE CONF
happens in class as well, in the tutorial, but, um,
you, you do know that there is a quiz on.
NOTE CONF
So last night, I posted a post on Canvas, um,
to indicate that you can, you can do a practise
NOTE CONF
quiz, right?
That practise quiz just gives you some some expectation as
NOTE CONF
to how the real quiz will occur, um.
And it also sort of hints on the different topics
NOTE CONF
that we'll be talking about.
It's very simple.
NOTE CONF
You've got 3 attempts for the uh practise quiz, but
only 1 attempt for the actual quiz.
NOTE CONF
That's an early feedback task that we have for you
guys, um, and you'll be expected to do that in
NOTE CONF
class.
So if you, if your class isn't, you know, today.
NOTE CONF
It's later down the wick.
The advice is to just do that practise quiz, try
NOTE CONF
an error, see, see how it goes, you know, it's
the same sort of testing condition, then, then you won't
NOTE CONF
be coming in worrying about, you know, what sort of
question needs to happen, um, and so forth.
NOTE CONF
It's only 15 minute long so you don't have to
stress over it.
NOTE CONF
Um, obviously the practise is at home anywhere you want,
there's a, you can just open book that.
NOTE CONF
Um, but unfortunately for the actual one, it's not so
open book, so hence we're doing it in class.
NOTE CONF
Aside from that, you'll be asked to form your groups,
um, this week, so we're starting to move into the
NOTE CONF
phase where we're gonna go through and, um, and self-describe
what project you and your team members want to work
NOTE CONF
on, um, and obviously that, that actual task of describing
your full project comes down in later, um, what, week
NOTE CONF
6 or 8, right, that's around the, the point of
submission for the project scope.
NOTE CONF
Um, your job, your task is really to find out
an interesting problem, find out where the dataset could come
NOTE CONF
from, and then go off and determine a machine learning
model, um, that fulfils this and solve a societal problem,
NOTE CONF
right?
And I say societal very loosely because you can be
NOTE CONF
very constrained into the environment, like the engineering environment that
you have, um, so if you're, You know, for civil
NOTE CONF
students, civil engineering students, you could find out asset management
data set that could then determine how to best utilise
NOTE CONF
the, the, um, the building, right, assets that you have,
uh, on your books.
NOTE CONF
That's one example.
Um, there are many other examples, so feel free to
NOTE CONF
talk to your tutors about that.
Ask them what's their thoughts, perhaps ask them for the
NOTE CONF
different, um, data, data websites.
Um, we have good.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, are we, are we recording in any way?
I think we are right.
NOTE CONF
Light isn't.
Uh, I need to click something.
NOTE CONF
I don't think that is actually on.
Huh?
NOTE CONF
It's on.
Should be going, OK.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, there's no light, that song.
OK.
NOTE CONF
I am just gonna continue.
Yeah, can you, um, do you use, do you use
NOTE CONF
hair?
Which one do you use?
NOTE CONF
I never touched it actually.
I, I just, I just rock up.
NOTE CONF
Let's get going.
OK, all right, sweet.
NOTE CONF
I'll have a look at that.
Yeah, thanks.
NOTE CONF
OK, um, it's good that I'm trying to record this
on on Zoom as well, so we'll see how that
NOTE CONF
works.
Um, so this week we are doing.
NOTE CONF
These few things.
So aside from what I just mentioned with the project
NOTE CONF
that will be expected to happen in class, um, forming
that, putting your groups on art canvas, there's also the
NOTE CONF
quiz, do the practise quiz beforehand, um, and you should
be fine.
NOTE CONF
Um, this week we're talking about the K nearest neighbour
classifiers, right, so KNN for short.
NOTE CONF
Uh, we'll look at the weighted version of that as
well, just to show, you know, what are the differences,
NOTE CONF
how, how is the compute that happens in the backdrop,
you know, what limitations, maybe what to be concerned of,
NOTE CONF
um, pre-processing of data sets.
Um, and also how do you turn a categorical value
NOTE CONF
into numerical value and vice versa, right?
So there's a, there's a few diagrams here, I think
NOTE CONF
that's sort of generally represent the the few topics here,
um, we might as well just get on with that
NOTE CONF
one.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So for a supervised learning model, you have something, a,
a category of machine learning class uh called KNNs and
NOTE CONF
basically it is trying to classify each of the dots
that you have in your system, especially an unknown dot,
NOTE CONF
right, so into a certain class.
Now remember you have this as a uh supervised situation,
NOTE CONF
so meaning that you already have some label.
So you have 100% of your data set, you cut
NOTE CONF
up, say 70%, use it for training, right?
The 70% should be generally representative for the two different
NOTE CONF
classes or however many classes that you have.
And then from that point onwards, That sort of denote
NOTE CONF
it as your represented in the blue box and also
the um red triangle, and then in your very final
NOTE CONF
um testing set, you put in the green dot and
you ask the question, which class should it be?
NOTE CONF
Right, and really that just goes through on and on
and on.
NOTE CONF
Now how does the algorithm determine what class something is?
Right, remember it's got labels and, and so forth.
NOTE CONF
So here you can see that I've thrown two circles.
OK, the two circles basically say, OK, in the closest
NOTE CONF
neighbour, what, what are, what, what are their classes?
And if you're very close to them, then the chance
NOTE CONF
of you being in that same class is pretty high.
So you can see for the, for the solid line
NOTE CONF
one, there are 4 dots in the circle, one being
green, 2 being red.
NOTE CONF
The, the final conclusion that machine learning algorithms should have,
or the green dot is that it should belong into
NOTE CONF
the red triangle class.
Now, strangely, if you expand that circle to a higher
NOTE CONF
number, say for example, 5, Which then includes 2 more
blue boxes.
NOTE CONF
The actual green circle would be classed as a blue
box, right?
NOTE CONF
So now you have this varying situation where depending on
how big your K is, right, which is a which
NOTE CONF
is a parameter, you are free to vary uh vary,
will make a big difference into the classifying process.
NOTE CONF
Right, so there's a parameter you can tweak.
So here's basically what I just said, um, with the
NOTE CONF
parameter K set to an odd value, say 5, you
get one determination, and then if you set it, say
NOTE CONF
for 3, then that's a different one.
Now this is um for each of these factors, uh
NOTE CONF
feature factors X, you compute the distance between those values.
So it's not just the, the number of occurrences, it's
NOTE CONF
also the average distance you have with them, right?
And depending on um obviously, A, how you compute the
NOTE CONF
distance, it may give you a very different representation, um,
but B, how you compute the averaging of that effect.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So in a normal KNN situation, you would sort them
NOTE CONF
from the smallest to the largest and note that the
K value would then um sort of maps, and you
NOTE CONF
want to see a situation where the class stays generally
the same and then there's a very big variability.
NOTE CONF
Now if you have a very small K value, You
basically are limiting your environment to the closest, you know,
NOTE CONF
field dots, and then you can run into a situation
where you overfit your data set.
NOTE CONF
But if you have a very large K value, you'll
be very generalised and you can't be too sure, especially
NOTE CONF
around the grain boundaries or the um, Their data boundaries,
um, what, what classes they are.
NOTE CONF
So that needs to just be, um, just be remembered
uh as a, as a challenge.
NOTE CONF
Um, they, the classified generally then outputs the class labels
of the highest count, OK, so.
NOTE CONF
Now there's something called compute, you know, power in this
uh environment where.
NOTE CONF
Depending on the parameters that you set, it may drastically
slow down your compute.
NOTE CONF
Um, now, fortunately for the, for this KNN situation, changing
your cases will not affect your, uh, computational complexity.
NOTE CONF
Right, because the KNN process involves computing all the distances
between all the all the verb uh points you have,
NOTE CONF
and then actually using that then as a baseline to
compute, right, it is then the averaging effect that it's
NOTE CONF
really calculating.
So irrespective of what K you use, you know, your
NOTE CONF
computational complexity is determined by the number of ends you
have.
NOTE CONF
So if you have a lot of data points, right,
then it's gonna take a lot longer um than something
NOTE CONF
that's smaller set.
But in the, in the two cases, your compute time
NOTE CONF
will not vary a lot um based on the the
K value that you choose.
NOTE CONF
So as I said here, the complexity grows with N,
right?
NOTE CONF
Best to not use too many training samples, um, but
you know, a variety of that training sample.
NOTE CONF
So you can imagine if this was added with yes
last week's topic, you might want to use a, a
NOTE CONF
cross validation process, right?
You, you only select, You know, maybe like 50% or
NOTE CONF
even slightly lower, um, training set, but then move through
the system by shifting that window across to get a
NOTE CONF
good representation of, you know, your, um, your diagram, right,
your, your class model.
NOTE CONF
This is not always the same with uh say neural
networks, you might in some neural networks, you do want
NOTE CONF
to pump in as much training data set as possible,
um, you know, and that's why in a very different
NOTE CONF
approaches, right?
This is actually quite fast compared to one of those
NOTE CONF
neural network built, it could actually do the job very
quickly with a very limited number of data points, um,
NOTE CONF
because of this, of this, um, I guess condition.
So the distance measured is also not, you know, purely
NOTE CONF
just one type of distance calculation.
You can use a Euclidean uh approach, but there's also
NOTE CONF
other things like, uh, absolute values, um, so those are
parameter parameters that you can set within the, within the
NOTE CONF
function call, right, and you need to look at what
the default is, right, so when you actually do this
NOTE CONF
work in, In class, you will have to go into
documentation, just note that the parameters that you can change,
NOTE CONF
what you don't change is really the default, and if
that is really what you want.
NOTE CONF
OK, there's some subtleties, you might want to play around
with just those two, say, distance calculation, distance followers, and
NOTE CONF
see how it affects the outcome, right?
Um, and obviously when you're trying to compute which one
NOTE CONF
is better, you go back to, you go back to
the classifiers, um, you know, precision scores and F1 scores
NOTE CONF
to see if actually it is good or not.
Now, in the real, in the real world, right, there's
NOTE CONF
often, there's often imbalance of data sets.
So basically, you get more positive representation.
NOTE CONF
So for example, you know, in Sydney, you might actually
have more days that are sunny than raining.
NOTE CONF
And so if you're computing something along the lines of
weather patterns, um, you may actually get more blue dots
NOTE CONF
representing, I don't know, sunny day.
And then the orange dots would be your raining days,
NOTE CONF
right?
So, in a situation like this, The, you know, in
NOTE CONF
the hypothetical, what happens to this yellow triangle?
Would it be classed as orange, or should it be
NOTE CONF
classed as blue?
Right, knowing that there's quite a lot of representation around
NOTE CONF
the boundary with the blue dots.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Now based on those, based on the averaging values, you
could actually class that yellow dot as blue, right, and
NOTE CONF
in fact we'll show a little um sample of the
compute.
NOTE CONF
In, in saying, you know, how they come to this
conclusion.
NOTE CONF
But if you were to change this, using a very
different, um, model, say a weighted nearest neighbour, instead of,
NOTE CONF
uh, K nearest neighbour, um, then the end result will
actually be a orange instead.
NOTE CONF
So we can look at that.
This actually occurs a lot more than um a lot,
NOTE CONF
yeah, a lot more than um.
Quite frequently, I should say.
NOTE CONF
Um, because that's how we, we generally capture data.
There's always a bias in there.
NOTE CONF
OK, so to precisely calculate, um, there's a formula we
can just, yep, wait to.
NOTE CONF
OK, so basically it is just an inversion, inversion of
the distance, OK?
NOTE CONF
I don't think this actual slide makes a good case,
but this one does.
NOTE CONF
So you can see that, right, using that previous uh
example.
NOTE CONF
If you were to compute the class using this K
and N approach, you will get this outcome.
NOTE CONF
So, obviously you calculate the distance between triangle and square,
you plot that out.
NOTE CONF
The first line here is really your KNN approach.
But if you were to reverse, so, if you were
NOTE CONF
to sum those two up, you can see one being
0.9, right, in the first class, class 0, it's 0.9,
NOTE CONF
and then the class one, which is the blue one,
is actually 3.3.
NOTE CONF
So the largest of those two is actually output of
class one, right, that's using the KNN approach for this
NOTE CONF
imbalanced data set um challenge.
The weighted, uh, the weighted nearest neighbour approach, which is
NOTE CONF
inversing the distance, gives you a very different outlook.
So if you inverse 0.5, you get 2, if you
NOTE CONF
inverse 0.4, you get 2.5, and so forth.
You compute that, you add that together.
NOTE CONF
And then the final answer is actually a class 0.
So it's putting more weighting in this quadrant than this
NOTE CONF
other quadrant, right?
And this makes a big difference, right?
NOTE CONF
Do you want to have a um do you want
to synthesise the data so it's balanced, and then then
NOTE CONF
you can use the KNN approach?
Or do you want to just acknowledge that this is
NOTE CONF
a imbalanced data set and that a weighted nearest neighbour,
uh approach is actually more correct, you know, more accurate
NOTE CONF
in predicting.
Um, the, the value, right, that you're in question.
NOTE CONF
OK, so, um, very often we, we're interested in knowing
the probability, not just what class it it comes in,
NOTE CONF
um, and so we use often this notation, the, It
basically the conditional probability notation where.
NOTE CONF
You know, given a class, right, where class I denotes
as the I class, and that X is the vector
NOTE CONF
of the input feature.
And how you read this generally is the probability of
NOTE CONF
a correct class being class A, B, C, given the
observed feature uh X.
NOTE CONF
So this little statement, whilst it's kind of concluded, you
know, in a, in a literal sense.
NOTE CONF
Is how we often describe the probability of a um
result, given the occurrence of something, right, so what's the
NOTE CONF
probability of today raining, given the clouds are, or the
sky is cloudy, and you can actually compute um this
NOTE CONF
sort of probability and the, And the likelihood, right, of
a certain result.
NOTE CONF
Um, we'll talk more about this conditional probability next week
because that's when the base in naive based approach, generally
NOTE CONF
known as your spam, your email spam philtre, uh, approach,
they look for certain occurrences of features, and with a
NOTE CONF
long list of that occurrences, they make a very simplistic
determination of like, well, you know, if it quacks like
NOTE CONF
a darken.
Wattles like a duck and, you know, floats like a
NOTE CONF
duck, then it must be a duck.
So you know, there's all these additional conditions that could
NOTE CONF
give you a very highly probable, um, you know, classifying
or a uh prediction.
NOTE CONF
And that's actually very powerful because, you know, it, it,
I think it mirrors exactly what, generally everyday world events
NOTE CONF
are, you know, if you see one occurrences of something,
you might doubt it, but if you see multiple, Um
NOTE CONF
You know, Examples or multiple uh suggestions that it it
it is the case, and you're gonna trust that with
NOTE CONF
high degrees of conviction.
OK.
NOTE CONF
Now both of these uh classifiers, you can, you can
use this approach, um, but then you simply just, Use
NOTE CONF
that formula set, right, so you in both KNN and
WNN which is weighted, uh, we can argue that the
NOTE CONF
conditional probability of N, uh, over the sum of NKs.
OK, so N being either weighted or unweighted count of
NOTE CONF
the neighbours.
So you basically just the um divide this by the
NOTE CONF
number of occurrences.
So using that example again.
NOTE CONF
You can see the conditional probability.
Is that So you would say, you know, to, um,
NOTE CONF
with the weighted nearest net network, estimation of the probability
of the two classes, the first class is 0.6.
NOTE CONF
OK, so that triangle being in plus one is 0.6,
so 60%, right?
NOTE CONF
It's not very high, but if your threshold is, if
your threshold is 0.5, then it's enough to do the
NOTE CONF
job already because it's more than 0.5.
Right, whereas in the other, in the other class it's
NOTE CONF
just 0.4, like 40%, 39.4%. Now if your threshold is
below that, say, you know, you're quite loose at it,
NOTE CONF
I don't really care, we're just making sales recommendation on,
on Amazon, um, you know, a 0.2% will be sufficed
NOTE CONF
to do that, then it could be classed as a,
um, the second class instead.
NOTE CONF
And so extending this to back to the KNN situation,
you can again also compute the probability, um, the two
NOTE CONF
probabilities are 0 40% and 60% respectively, but you can
see there the there's an inversion there, right?
NOTE CONF
No longer is the default if you have a 0.5
threshold, yeah, you, you could get a class one outcome
NOTE CONF
as a by default.
So if you use some of the classifiers, the the
NOTE CONF
estimated probability will be different again, it's very hard to
argue which one's more accurate.
NOTE CONF
It is the collective.
If um, if you run and deploy your algorithm, and
NOTE CONF
then you find out that most of your prediction is
actually incorrect.
NOTE CONF
I mean that's in the good case, right, if you
can find, if it's that obvious, then it's an easy
NOTE CONF
fix.
But the trouble is that it may not be as
NOTE CONF
obvious and that you really need to then play around.
Um, and make your own decision at that point.
NOTE CONF
So there's a lot of explanation, there's a lot of
research, therefore on um explainable AI's, you know, how does
NOTE CONF
something give a outcome that is trustworthy or not trustworthy,
right?
NOTE CONF
And, you know, in a world where we are moving
away from being able to explain things and just trust
NOTE CONF
that probability instead, um, this is sort of a ongoing
research and uh alignment process.
NOTE CONF
So this actually falls into the worlds of ethics, right,
you often hear about AI alignment, you know, how do
NOTE CONF
we know this hallucination is true or not true, or
is it good enough for the job, um.
NOTE CONF
And yeah, like, your, your biggest challenge is being able
to explain this because right now this is still explainable
NOTE CONF
very simplistically by diagram here and there.
But when you move into decision trees and random forests
NOTE CONF
and ensemble systems, it's really just trusting the mathematics in
there and then averaging out and then saying, OK, well,
NOTE CONF
this, this value tends to be higher all the time,
and this particular pathway is how it goes to categorise
NOTE CONF
something.
It's less explainable, it's less clear cut into why something
NOTE CONF
does happen that that particular way.
Now be very mindful how, um, those features that you
NOTE CONF
do put on, right?
So that axis that you saw, right, in the previous,
NOTE CONF
um, diagram, you have the feature one, feature one being
your dimensions, right?
NOTE CONF
And then feature two being another dimension, they could be
a very different unit scales.
NOTE CONF
If you have very different unit scales, you're gonna run
into a problem where the data set's really skewed, right,
NOTE CONF
so imagine you're plotting engine capacity versus year models.
The year model will be very compressed because, you know,
NOTE CONF
if you're buying a car, Chances of that car ranging
from 0 years to 15 years is pretty high, but
NOTE CONF
from 15 years onwards it's pretty low.
It's quite compressed.
NOTE CONF
But then the engine capacity, um, if you're quoting in
CCs, right, it could range from, I don't know.
NOTE CONF
1000 cc to 4.5, so, you know, the spacing between
that is actually a lot, lot more.
NOTE CONF
So in those situations, now other situations also occurs in
say, demographic datas, you have age in years and height
NOTE CONF
in centimetres, uh, and so forth.
In those situations you really need to normalise your dataset,
NOTE CONF
right?
So these are part of the pre-processing that we mentioned
NOTE CONF
and talk about.
Um, it's really just putting it as a ratio to
NOTE CONF
the extreme end, right, so you try and look at
those formulas, not as a way of just memorising what
NOTE CONF
is happening.
But trying to understand, OK, why did the denominator is
NOTE CONF
max minus the mean, right?
OK, well that that's the scale that I'm trying to
NOTE CONF
play with, and the top is just really the scale
from one end to that other end.
NOTE CONF
If you fit in the numbers, obviously it's gonna be,
you know, very large value, uh, ranging to small value,
NOTE CONF
but at least it's in that scale range.
So we normalise the data, right, for all the features
NOTE CONF
in general.
And then you can plot them on the KNN um
NOTE CONF
framework or the weighted nearest neighbour, and then you can
basically do your classing that way.
NOTE CONF
And again we use functions to to do all this
work, so you don't have to manually do it, um,
NOTE CONF
but the function inykile is really just that, pre-processing, right,
normalisation.
NOTE CONF
And so the, the actual, um, documentation can be found
online, obviously, um, but you can see here, you can
NOTE CONF
have different ways of computing, right?
You can either have a uniform approach or a distance
NOTE CONF
approach where it is the, the inversion, um, the weighted,
the weighted, um, nearest neighbour, uh compute, uh, and so
NOTE CONF
forth.
And you wanna range your neighbours, so the K value
NOTE CONF
from 3.
To say 10, right?
NOTE CONF
Given that range, you can then sample, OK, how effective
is your model.
NOTE CONF
So these are just general steps you might want to
implement, you have your fit, right, so creating an object
NOTE CONF
for the actual algorithm to occur, that's a, that's just
a class representation, um, and then using the fit, um,
NOTE CONF
method, you can then train your model and then predict,
right?
NOTE CONF
Predict would then give you a certain class.
But if you wanted to know the probability of each
NOTE CONF
of those classes, you use predict, you know, underscore proper.
Uh, and that will give you the actual probability of
NOTE CONF
those classes, giving you some sort of certainty.
You can then look at that manually, you can compute
NOTE CONF
that subsequently, you can do other things with that.
Uh, and then obviously you compare and contrast the different,
NOTE CONF
uh, accuracy of the algorithm using the metrics function.
OK, so these are all methods that you can just
NOTE CONF
easily call.
And when you all put them all together, this is
NOTE CONF
generally the pipeline that you have.
You can, You know, the reason why I'm telling you
NOTE CONF
all this, you can obviously find it in any, any
sort of web pages, but very often you stick to
NOTE CONF
their way of representation, right, and you don't really know
what you're doing.
NOTE CONF
And so the whole point here is to describe what
you're trying to do, and here's an example of how
NOTE CONF
you do it.
So then when you read other um representations, right, if
NOTE CONF
you read other tutorial sets or other notes, you can
see, oh, right, this maps to how I want to
NOTE CONF
do my bit and this is how they did it,
and so forth, right?
NOTE CONF
I'm sure you all have been looking at the tutorial
answers, right, the tutorial answers is a way for you
NOTE CONF
to learn the best practise of how to represent, how
to code, how to comment, um, you know, you should
NOTE CONF
also be following and developing that ability for your, for
your own work, right, when you're self-coding, this is, this
NOTE CONF
is the commentary that you make.
So all this is a stylistic thing.
NOTE CONF
Now, the more you comment in your code, the better
it is for other people to read your code, and
NOTE CONF
also for you to decipher what happened, you know, if
there's something that doesn't work, and how can you improve
NOTE CONF
on that particular um process.
Any questions so far?
NOTE CONF
No, no, not no discussion on this?
No questions?
NOTE CONF
OK.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So if you were to do exactly that, right, um,
you can pump this in Python and then see what
NOTE CONF
the test data, um, of the two predictions, right, of
the two approaches to the predictions, uh, you can then
NOTE CONF
plot that and then you can compare.
You can compare which model, which compute, gives you better
NOTE CONF
recall values, precision values, and accuracy values.
Right, even though the accuracy is the same, you can
NOTE CONF
see in one situation, the recall is very different, right,
whereas the precision is also very similar.
NOTE CONF
So, you know, when you choose a model, do you
want the KNN approach or the um weighted nearest neighbour
NOTE CONF
approach?
Well it depends on what you're trying to optimise, right?
NOTE CONF
You're trying to optimise the precision versus recall, then maybe
a KNN is good enough.
NOTE CONF
But if you know, if, if it's a flat line
that you you want it to be uh agnostic, which
NOTE CONF
is basically, you know, random classifiers, then you, you wanna,
you wanna have the other one.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So how is this used in a generalised machine learning?
NOTE CONF
Um, well, a lot of the times we're trying to
classify things, so, so that's what we're trying to compute
NOTE CONF
the mapping function between the output and the input class.
Um, so the input features and the output class.
NOTE CONF
So this corresponds to the input value where theta is
the parameter factor.
NOTE CONF
Um, there's no obvious parameters to optimise.
Instead, the training data is used to create decision regions.
NOTE CONF
So we want to play around with how to represent
the data set, right?
NOTE CONF
Whether or not you use a Kold cross validation, you
know, 10 versus 5 versus 20, um, what's the percentage
NOTE CONF
of your training set?
Is it 50%, is it 80%, um, you know, and,
NOTE CONF
and vary that range.
That's your decision.
NOTE CONF
Variation space.
So if you're talking about experiments, right, you've got your
NOTE CONF
experimental factors, right?
So what values to change in a, in a box
NOTE CONF
and then compute how that actually corresponds to accuracy.
You can consider the decision boundaries, right, so you can
NOTE CONF
play around with the various parameters such as thresholds as
well.
NOTE CONF
Um, the parameter K, the nearest neighbour, is a hyperparameter,
and it doesn't, um, it determines the exact form of
NOTE CONF
the model, OK?
It's not actually related in the optimisation, right?
NOTE CONF
So hyperparametters are not learned, um, or updated during the
optimisation process.
NOTE CONF
It is set beforehand.
So irrespective of what it is, you can just set
NOTE CONF
and tune it, and then, you know, that gives you
a different outcome, not because of your data set, not
NOTE CONF
because of the optimisation, but because you just set it
differently.
NOTE CONF
OK, which is a, a kind of new concept, um.
But that little fixed value do determine the overall architecture
NOTE CONF
and the behaviour of the model.
So you need to like play around with that a
NOTE CONF
lot and really see how that plays it plays out.
OK, um, so we've mentioned a lot about these two
NOTE CONF
models, which, um, you'll probably use a lot.
Um, in this week, I think we have some transport
NOTE CONF
data that you will be classing things out.
Um, but when you receive that particular data set, there's
NOTE CONF
a lot you need to do beforehand.
In that process, we generally call it pre-processing, right, as
NOTE CONF
the name suggests.
So in the real world you capture a lot of
NOTE CONF
things, for example, the time and date of something happening,
the actual reading from sensors perhaps, but then there's always
NOTE CONF
one or two categories that may just not have data
in there.
NOTE CONF
Do you delete the whole role?
Do you, do you fill that in with something?
NOTE CONF
What?
And how do you deal with them?
NOTE CONF
I think those are, those make a big difference if
a lot of your data has holes in them, right?
NOTE CONF
You know, they're not always complete.
Especially when you're merging between two data sets, right, because
NOTE CONF
maybe like one company collects sensors from those sensors, right,
heat sensors, temperature sensors, you know, vibration sensors, but then
NOTE CONF
Company B, Same problem there, they they only capture two.
So then now you have a missing dimension or maybe
NOTE CONF
parts of the sensors just sort of doesn't work and
so you have gaps in those data.
NOTE CONF
Um, when you merge them into two, sure you can
sort them by, you know, time, you can sort them
NOTE CONF
by the actual, Um, device that you have, but then
there'll also be those empty gaps, and so you need
NOTE CONF
to think about how to deal with those empty data
sets.
NOTE CONF
Now Pandas is a tool that we then use to
um deal with this, so very often when you import
NOTE CONF
import your CSV you use Pandas import read CSV, um,
you do your pre-processing, and then you use PyitL Learn
NOTE CONF
to actually then deal with, um, the, the training of
the model, and then you use other plotting software, Seborne,
NOTE CONF
and so forth to, to plot it and see how
it all works, right?
NOTE CONF
So in Panthers, Um, there's a way of converting, not
a value, not a number, into something else, right?
NOTE CONF
So any missing data is converted to not a number
in the loading of the file, so you get this
NOTE CONF
NAN value.
You can see it's already creating some sort of issues,
NOTE CONF
right, especially when you're getting noticed, when you're just coding,
type it in, you hit run.
NOTE CONF
Then it doesn't work.
There's a comment, there's a comment that says maybe like
NOTE CONF
incorrect types, things like that.
That's basically saying that, well, not all your roads are
NOTE CONF
of the same type.
Right?
NOTE CONF
You can see the timestamp um column should be in
timestamp format, whereas the power should be in a floating,
NOTE CONF
right, floating value format.
But now you have this not a number situation, which
NOTE CONF
is just a string value.
So you need to convert this into something else.
NOTE CONF
Um, in some cases, those methods will just ignore a
NAN value and treat that as a zero.
NOTE CONF
So in a summing method, in the averaging method, um,
but this may not always be sensible, because if you
NOTE CONF
have a lot of those zeros, um, and you average
the column, then what you're getting is like uh extremely
NOTE CONF
small value which is not representative.
You might actually want to fill those zeros with the
NOTE CONF
average of the other.
Um, existing values, so there's already two methods of consideration,
NOTE CONF
um, to deal with that.
Now, obviously you can just drop that role if you
NOTE CONF
don't want to deal with it.
Um, the challenge is if you have a lot of
NOTE CONF
those not a value across multiple dimensions, scattered throughout.
You might end up dropping a good 60% of your
NOTE CONF
of your data set just because it's missing one value
from that role.
NOTE CONF
So, you know, we're back to that same problem.
So to find out how like the first step to
NOTE CONF
really looking at your data points is to find out
if there's any missing entries, and so you can ask
NOTE CONF
the question.
It is not, you know, is NA function using that
NOTE CONF
and then basically count that.
So obviously, you know, you compute this properly, you can
NOTE CONF
just do a quick search, you import your data set,
you go, you know, look through this data um um
NOTE CONF
data frame and count the number of NAs and then
report back.
NOTE CONF
You should be getting zeros, right, for each of the
dimensions, but if not, then you can zoom in into
NOTE CONF
the actual column and then try and find a way
to deal with that.
NOTE CONF
The opposite can also occur, so you can just look
at how many that actually as a false value, so
NOTE CONF
either way works.
But assuming that you then identified the column that you
NOTE CONF
need to deal with, right, solving those NA values, you
can then use the um, The F fill approach.
NOTE CONF
So you can F fill it to any numbers you
want.
NOTE CONF
You can then, so what we did in the very
first tutorial, we asked you to do a average of
NOTE CONF
existing things.
So you can isolate the column, right, isolate the column,
NOTE CONF
take out the rows that does not have the value,
compute the average, that average now goes into all those
NOTE CONF
other empty values.
Right, there's a very common approach to infilling the, the
NOTE CONF
gaps because you know, worst case is is it's just
laying on the average.
NOTE CONF
OK?
You don't have deferability anymore.
NOTE CONF
So you can use that to just feel everything, and
that would generally do that.
NOTE CONF
Um, I think there's also other, Methods are other subcond
conditions in that, in that function, you can just go
NOTE CONF
to the page and look at that, um, but you
can also if feel, Certain rows and columns, right, up
NOTE CONF
to say 200 or, you know, pre uh predetermined value.
So you, that that's the most common way of um
NOTE CONF
pre-processing that you need to handle manually, unfortunately.
I mean obviously you can script this so then it
NOTE CONF
just goes through that process, um but you need to
pay attention to that.
NOTE CONF
But the other more, the less frequent but more probable,
um, Situations may be needing to transform the signals, right,
NOTE CONF
we mentioned briefly about the time domain versus frequency domain,
uh conversion, so using a fasterier transform approach to re-represent
NOTE CONF
your data set, um, perhaps you might want to translate
that Cartesian coordinate to a polar coordinate, uh, that could
NOTE CONF
also work.
So you need to pre-process that, the transformation is quite
NOTE CONF
common, especially in engineering uh problems.
Uh, you might want to, Take a break from a
NOTE CONF
sequence, a long sequence of uh measurements, so using a
window, so a moving window, like in finance data, right,
NOTE CONF
if you're looking at stock price, you know, you're moving
a moving window, perhaps then to train, you know, based
NOTE CONF
on the last 3 months, you train something, you predict
the next day, right, and then the next day comes
NOTE CONF
through, you do that whole process again, in 2 months'
time, your model effectively, You know, updates itself to just
NOTE CONF
a new information set.
Um, you extract the, the features from the time frequency
NOTE CONF
domain, right, that is most representative and most powerful in
describing the classes, so.
NOTE CONF
That is like That's a correlation, right, which feature has
the strongest correlation to the actual situation.
NOTE CONF
Right, so.
So you know, like I could, I could use this
NOTE CONF
classroom as an example.
Right, whether or not turning up to lectures is a
NOTE CONF
function of the student's ability or students uh desire to
learning, or maybe just a function of the night before,
NOTE CONF
you know, those are which of those features I want
to take to predict the class turn up ratio.
NOTE CONF
Right, sometimes it's not as clear, but you can see
if I frame it in that format, it's quite relatable,
NOTE CONF
right, what is the most predominant determining factor?
And when you're going through that analysis, you're effectively performing
NOTE CONF
a feature selection process.
Right, I could capture a bunch of stuff from you
NOTE CONF
guys, demographic datas, you know, your scheduling datas, and all
that, put them all together, and then I could say,
NOTE CONF
well, given a student, right, would he or she or
them be more, um, probable in turning up to class
NOTE CONF
the next day?
Right?
NOTE CONF
That's actually quite interesting.
Um, problem say if you think about it.
NOTE CONF
There are many ways of reducing the dimensionality, right, as
we said, if I capture everything about each of you.
NOTE CONF
There's probably like, you know, too many features to really
go through, but I'm sure there's only 1 or 2
NOTE CONF
or 3 features that is most determined um most correlated
to you turning up to class or not, right?
NOTE CONF
And so in that reduction process.
Yes, you can look through them manually, but there's also
NOTE CONF
other things called PCA analysis, which I briefly mentioned before,
right?
NOTE CONF
Principal component analysis, which basically maps this whole thing into
um looking at the correlation between the effects, between the
NOTE CONF
different features, and then pulling saying, OK, well this class
of information and that class of information is about the
NOTE CONF
same, so we'll just take one of the two.
Instead, right, and then you reduce substantially the number of
NOTE CONF
features, then you can put this into a machine learning
model to then train it effectively without using too much
NOTE CONF
compute.
Um, if we simply have an entire signal, yep.
NOTE CONF
A lot of input may be too complex to train,
so we reduce that, yeah.
NOTE CONF
And obviously we have this imbalanced situation.
Now if I were to ask you all to do
NOTE CONF
a survey and then give me that information and I'd
do that for 34 weeks, right, all I'm really capturing
NOTE CONF
is the representation of those who do show up.
But what about all the other people who don't show
NOTE CONF
up, right?
Is that translatable?
NOTE CONF
Right?
Because in week one we had some students, and in
NOTE CONF
week two, we had some students who couldn't make it,
and so forth.
NOTE CONF
But in this whole process, I'm, I'm capturing a lot
of, you know, data for, from students who are in
NOTE CONF
class, but that is not representative of the whole class,
right, of the, of the, of the course that we
NOTE CONF
have here, right?
So this phenomena of imbalance or unbalanced data is, is
NOTE CONF
really common, as I mentioned.
Um, Other forms of pre-processing, how do we deal with
NOTE CONF
imbalanced data, depends on the cost of making a wrong
decision, um, the cost favouring one cost over another, we
NOTE CONF
assigned the numerical value, uh, false positive, false negative, talked
about that, and you can then minimise the overall cost.
NOTE CONF
There's more other um complex scope of uh pre-processing, um.
I will upload, I found this, found this, um, medium,
NOTE CONF
uh, article.
Um, it quite complex, but also quite understand, right?
NOTE CONF
It's quite long.
I'll upload it onto, onto, um, Canvas.
NOTE CONF
But basically it explains, um, why some situations you want
probability calculation and how to deal with that.
NOTE CONF
And then The other form is also categorising, um, you
know, your information.
NOTE CONF
So very often, right, say, If we want to determine,
if we want to train a machine learning model to
NOTE CONF
know who on the, on the train lines takes, you
know, whatever steps they need to do to hop off
NOTE CONF
at certain stations, you could simply map out, OK, this
person has hopped off of, I don't know, Epping, Strathfield,
NOTE CONF
Redfern, Burwood, you've got your categorical data.
But how can I translate this into something that is
NOTE CONF
um numerical, right?
So what we do is call a one hot encoding.
NOTE CONF
Which is basically the same for every single element, right,
you've got your Epping, Strathfield, Burwood, Redfern stations, you move
NOTE CONF
that as a, you transpose that as an individual feature,
and for every occurrences that you see that occurs, you
NOTE CONF
just put a 1 there, right, and everything else is
0.
NOTE CONF
What you then can compute from that is quite powerful.
So one hot encoding for categorical uh variables, you would
NOTE CONF
have things like labels like airport names, like, you know,
station names, you can then, Translate that into uh a
NOTE CONF
numerical value.
Most machine learning algorithms expects numerical inputs.
NOTE CONF
You cannot just like pass through an average value of
between Redfern and and Burwood, right, because those are actual
NOTE CONF
names, those are string values.
But if you were to say, you, you've categorically mapped
NOTE CONF
them to this one hot encoding, then you put a
distance parameter around that, you can now almost, Give a
NOTE CONF
probable probabilistic model on like, oh, like for people that
hops on and off between these two stations, they must
NOTE CONF
be living around this region, right, so it's translatable to
that.
NOTE CONF
Um, that's why you want to map categorical labels into
numerical labels.
NOTE CONF
Um, but be sure, it's not always as clear cut
because, you know, maybe there's no relationships between those categorical
NOTE CONF
uh label in a, uh, cardinal sense.
So the most common method for converting such is one
NOTE CONF
hot encoding, we first looked at how many times value
occurs, uh, and then we create N minus 1 for
NOTE CONF
the dummy valuables, uh, with 1 being in the position.
There's one less of the occurrences, which is quite important.
NOTE CONF
Because there's a default, there's a default round trip mapped
in there already.
NOTE CONF
So suppose gender is using an example, suppose gender is
one of the features and allowable, Values are male, female,
NOTE CONF
and not given.
The problem is to estimate the amount uh spent in
NOTE CONF
a given shop based on gender or identify.
Um, And then we generate two dummy variables, X1 and
NOTE CONF
X2 to represent those two classes, but the third one,
Is, is the negation of either of them.
NOTE CONF
So you're reducing, or think about it, you had 3
different labels, that's effectively 3 dimensions, but now you can
NOTE CONF
reduce that down to slightly less than that.
Um, in the following table, OK.
NOTE CONF
So that's the following table, you would have 12, male,
yep, yep, and then unknown.
NOTE CONF
So with this, can you perform a regression or classification?
Using this new categorization.
NOTE CONF
Well, can you?
I mean, if you were to, if you were to
NOTE CONF
assign 0 to male, 1 to female, and 2 to
unknown, what would happen?
NOTE CONF
Right, so if you did not use the one hot
encoding, right, and you use that cardinal value, 1, like
NOTE CONF
01 and 2, what you're effectively doing is saying there
is a uh ordinal relationship between the, the sexes, right,
NOTE CONF
the genders.
But there isn't, right?
NOTE CONF
You can't get a 0.5, you can't get a 1.5
between female and unknown or you know, undescribed or something.
NOTE CONF
So you have to be very careful with, You know,
just mapping something as 123, as to as to the
NOTE CONF
new approach.
Um, that's why we have the one hot encoding uh
NOTE CONF
process where you're mapping one for one category and 2
for another one, but then if both cases are zero,
NOTE CONF
then it is that odd case, right?
So it is quite simple.
NOTE CONF
Again, you pull, you pull this from, um, you put
this on Panthers, um, PD, right?
NOTE CONF
And then you just say one hot encoding, using the
fee encode function, the encode fit transform, then you can
NOTE CONF
map it to an array, and that array then gives
you categorization.
NOTE CONF
Um, so using this example with the, with the light
duty um car vehicles, you can see that once you
NOTE CONF
map that, You will just basically get columns, mostly zeros,
but then there are sparse ones here and there, right?
NOTE CONF
There's also really the start to like sparse matrix, where
most of your data set tends to just be zeros,
NOTE CONF
because you have so many different parameters down the track,
and there are ways of compressing this data, handling this
NOTE CONF
data.
In fact, if you look at, say, some of the
NOTE CONF
large language model, that is what happens.
Most of the words, right, in the human uh vocabulary.
NOTE CONF
Are zero occurrences.
There will only be so many instances, right, in a
NOTE CONF
sentence that one word occurs.
And you know, how do you then treat that and
NOTE CONF
look through that lookup map effectively.
So once you, once you've gone through this mapping process,
NOTE CONF
uses the um to encode it.
If we uncommon the last two lines, we get this
NOTE CONF
dummy valuable in the in the thing, so the last
two lines.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
And then that becomes your table input.
NOTE CONF
So you've downloaded your CSV, you've gone through the process
of looking at what's NA and then done some processing
NOTE CONF
to them.
For any category, categorical data, you're gonna go through and
NOTE CONF
map it, right, using the one hot encoding, encoded I
should say, to a new feature.
NOTE CONF
And then extract this out to form your final data
set.
NOTE CONF
That then you can pass into.
Right, Iit learn for training, right, you do the split,
NOTE CONF
a 30, 70 split, maybe you run through some K-fault
cross validation process, and then you train your models, then
NOTE CONF
you go through the process of looking at how effective
that model is by the scores, and then you change
NOTE CONF
parameters.
So you can already imagine, right, the the summary right
NOTE CONF
now is there is so many different layers there.
Right, you've got your pre-processing, how do you encode.
NOTE CONF
Right, all that requires judgement, determination, and then, um, you
know, then the training.
NOTE CONF
So The introduction, um, is a summary, introduced the two
operations carried out, um, using psychicLearn obviously.
NOTE CONF
one hot encoding for pre-processing or categorical data, um, the
key nearest neighbour for supervised classification.
NOTE CONF
You also have the weighted nearest neighbour for imbalanced data
and handling of that.
NOTE CONF
Um, then you wanna, yeah, we introduced the usual steps
used in psychic Learn to train and test and supervise,
NOTE CONF
um, machine learning methods, um.
Introduce the methods in how to deal with missing datas
NOTE CONF
and feature selection through using either transforming or dwindling, um,
you know, of your data set, but you can imagine,
NOTE CONF
you can further process this using um PCA and other
just manual selection, right?
NOTE CONF
Dumping more data into a machine learning model or training
process is not always more efficient.
NOTE CONF
Sometimes you can confuse it and you cannot optimise it.
What your best outcome should be is, as I mentioned
NOTE CONF
in day one, right, an MVP approach to all this,
find a few features that is most correlated to the
NOTE CONF
system, train that, and then you get an outcome.
That perhaps is 80% or 90% um accurate in terms
NOTE CONF
of predicting what um what happens.
And then you add more values, you add more dimensionality.
NOTE CONF
You add more information to see if you can finesse
that and actually give you a better result.
NOTE CONF
Um, And yeah, that's basically today, this week.
Um, any questions so far with what has happened since
NOTE CONF
day one?
We're slowly giving you more and more tools to then
NOTE CONF
be able to carry on with your project.
Um, and next week we'll be talking about the naive
NOTE CONF
based approach.
So basically how do you recreate your email spam philtres?
NOTE CONF
Um, but for now, I think this is a good
sort of touch point, uh, end point for this week.
NOTE CONF
Please make sure to go through it and do the
practise quiz just before you go into your tutorials, um,
NOTE CONF
because, you know, you just don't want to go in
and like, oh, what is this?
NOTE CONF
I need to select things.
I'm, I'm sure most of you know how to use
NOTE CONF
Canvas, but, you know, just go through that as well.
Um, and try and form your groups.
NOTE CONF
We'll, we'll tell you more about, you know, the group
formation and how do you effectively work with your group
NOTE CONF
over time.
But from now on, um, just form your groups.
NOTE CONF
Add that into a new group in canvas.
You should be able to click, you know, add new
NOTE CONF
group, change your name, um, and then add in the
4 members, right?
NOTE CONF
If you can't do that, then talk to our tutors
and they'll help you.
NOTE CONF
All right, cool.
If you have any questions, just come down or shout
NOTE CONF
or whatever, yeah?
I clarify, so the K parameter, hyperparameter doesn't affect combinational
NOTE CONF
complexity.
No.
NOTE CONF
It, um, because it's basically calculating all the distances first
between all your N dots, right.
NOTE CONF
And then it's saying, OK, well, the final output needs
to be some output, right?
NOTE CONF
I'm just gonna grab 3 of this and then compute
within each of those circles.
NOTE CONF
Oh, so each dot then gets like a 3 circle
and they'll compute, OK, between these 3, this is the
NOTE CONF
value, so for this dot, this is the, the, the,
the average value, average distance of their neighbours, and then
NOTE CONF
from that point they'll say, OK, this is class 1
or class 2 or whatever.
NOTE CONF
And then they will then compute and sweep through all
your data points.
NOTE CONF
Right, so, so the complexity doesn't come from the K,
it comes from the number of nearest neighbour in it.
NOTE CONF
So it it it's sort of uh each every end
every point is completed.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, so you can imagine if you have like 100
dots, you have 100 dots here and 100 dots here,
NOTE CONF
and it's comparing the values for everything.
So that's already, you know, 10,000.
NOTE CONF
0, OK.
And then from that they say, OK, the nearest one.
NOTE CONF
Why, sorry, why, why do you need to compete for
every end?
NOTE CONF
I thought you already knew what every, oh you're doing
a scan.
NOTE CONF
If you're doing a scan, that's how it would be.
Right, because you, you can't just settle on one key
NOTE CONF
value, you don't really know.
If it should be 7, it should be 8, it
NOTE CONF
should be 9, should be 11.
So you want to compute like N being up to
NOTE CONF
say 20.
And then map it out.
NOTE CONF
OK.
Which K value gives you the most representative um classification.
NOTE CONF
Oh yeah, so you're using all the known values to
decide.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, yeah, cool, no worries.
Yeah, yeah, it's a closed book.
NOTE CONF
It's uh it's closed book.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
It's a pretty simple, you can take a pen and
a paper to note things.
NOTE CONF
But there's no hardcore, you know, like what's the syntax
of this.
NOTE CONF
Yes 12 of probabilities of.
Um, it's that like he's using the problem he's like
NOTE CONF
in.
It's an alternative alternative measure or way of reporting the
NOTE CONF
uh class.
So instead of just saying, OK, well, you know, this
NOTE CONF
is ACMO, it's like this is 60% AC 40% more.
Depends on your threshold, you can then further determine if
NOTE CONF
it's not good enough for sale.
So if you didn't.
NOTE CONF
We'll just give you like the classes for education, yeah.
You think getting a probability could be useful in downstream
NOTE CONF
processing.
Um, Well, like, for example, if you want to tweak
NOTE CONF
the the threshold.
You wanted to play around with the thresholds and how
NOTE CONF
sensitive something.
Right, you can do that.
NOTE CONF
Um, you can just say categorically, you know.
It's like the likelihood and the confidence is what you're
NOTE CONF
giving people the information.
Yeah Because if I ask you, is it gonna rain
NOTE CONF
today?
You can, you can either say yes, no.
NOTE CONF
But like it, it wouldn't be better if I say,
yeah, between the hours of, you know, 12 and 1,
NOTE CONF
probably gonna spring.
And you're like, oh well, I'm just gonna not go
NOTE CONF
out that, like, you know, you can make other determination
because you now have the confidence in.
NOTE CONF
Um, and then with the things.
So, um, is this the method that you have to
NOTE CONF
sum the distances?
This is what happens in the backdrop.
NOTE CONF
When you call the function, it just does some compute.
But like knowing this actually gives you some understanding oh
NOTE CONF
it's like these are the nearest neighbour, it's computing the
distances if you wanna make it so you can just
NOTE CONF
run and loop function for all in value or within
the range, you know, compute distance, average time.
NOTE CONF
Um, so it's with the canon, it's not like which
one has the.
NOTE CONF
Like once it's like you have to sum it up.
It's a distance, yeah, it's always a distance, not just
NOTE CONF
number of parts.
Because if that's a, if that's the case, then you
NOTE CONF
will have effectively every single value map to.
You know, that class it was simple because if you
NOTE CONF
show it and ask it one extra one like, well,
if it's 3, it must be you must be you
NOTE CONF
must be you and you're like, yeah.
No.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, so it's just basically racial, right, you look at
like between he and he, right?
NOTE CONF
Like this point is here.
And this is like, you know, in the scale of
NOTE CONF
metres, whereas in another situation, the scale is like millimetres.
The scale is very different, but if I map it
NOTE CONF
between the biggest point in my data set and then.
Smallest point, then it's always gonna be in the range
NOTE CONF
of one, right, if the, if the biggest point is
here.
NOTE CONF
And you're asking, well instead of reporting a number, give
me the ratio of something then we mean that normalised.
NOTE CONF
So it's like when you're unknown, it's like a different
s I were to map like students age to students
NOTE CONF
marks.
Maybe the mark range from between.
NOTE CONF
100 to 30 But then students like.
25 to 16, not like obviously it's not a great
NOTE CONF
example.
But you you want to normalise it so it doesn't
NOTE CONF
just always.
Maybe like number of months, so age reported not in
NOTE CONF
years but months.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
You can change the unit, um, but sometimes you lose
synchronise.
NOTE CONF
Do you understand like what.
So if you're measuring, if you're measuring things, um.
NOTE CONF
In the frequency domain by like sound.
You know, that, that more information is captured in the,
NOTE CONF
in the frequency domain, not in the sound or not
in the time domain, so you can keep pictures, right.
NOTE CONF
There's a base value that you hear base, but then
maybe there's a hum to the base.
NOTE CONF
Right, you want to extract that information, so what you
do is a fast fury transformer.
NOTE CONF
So it's just a re-representation instead standard procedures, but you
should know your problems set enough to go, oh well,
NOTE CONF
this makes more sense if it's represented in the frequency
domain because there's a, there's a purity to it right.
NOTE CONF
What engineering background in software?
Yeah, so Bal met, you would have to, there's a
NOTE CONF
lot of cases where like breathing apprati, you know, imagine
there's a.
NOTE CONF
cyclical feature to it and those things should be best
mapped in frequency.
NOTE CONF
So that's I was just about like um the pre-processing.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, you, you want to pre-trick your data so you
just don't dump it in and it looks the same.
NOTE CONF
You wanna say, OK, I've represented in this fashion, it
actually shows me more information about.
NOTE CONF
So in last week or the week before, there was
a mention of, you know, like certain dots laid out
NOTE CONF
in a circle.
It doesn't look to the machine learning system, there, there,
NOTE CONF
it's two different classes because there's XY variations just as
funny.
NOTE CONF
But there was actually a centroid to where most of
the colours were, right?
NOTE CONF
It's like, um, concentric so.
So if you map that to a polar coordinate system,
NOTE CONF
then you'll actually get that variability.
Uh, it's like the angle.
NOTE CONF
But well, it's a distance.
Uh, to some, some central.
NOTE CONF
And for this one but I got a question about
the here from last week.
NOTE CONF
I didn't understand like why.
Uh For the error probability is.
NOTE CONF
The Er probably is not useful in regression, so in
the.
NOTE CONF
Because it depends on the line that you're, you're not
passing.
NOTE CONF
Right, the, the confidence interval comes from the actual regression
line that you put.
NOTE CONF
You know, if you're using the least uh square method.
As a way of determining the prediction.
NOTE CONF
That distance that should be.
Not for rep or not because that absolution comes from
NOTE CONF
categorization processes.
So have a look at the um the one that
NOTE CONF
was uploaded in terms of the solution there should be
some.
NOTE CONF
So they're saying like airports is.
Yeah, it's like it's not confusion.
NOTE CONF
Well, it was just showing the difference between the way
the age and um it was saying that when they
NOTE CONF
in summer.
or the that's happen.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, it's just a total sum of.
So you've got 6 nearest neighbourhoods that you're using to
NOTE CONF
determine your your your question your question sum up the
distance that we do is with those 68 based on
NOTE CONF
those those values.
Must be It wasn't that doesn't.
NOTE CONF
No, that was the weighted one.
And it was like it was just a song.
NOTE CONF
That's not.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, um.
NOTE CONF
Safe is, it's it's actually if you look at it,
it's actually the no minimal of that.
NOTE CONF
The max anything else.
So, so, yeah, just note that if you're following it
NOTE CONF
through, then there will be a computer.
How Right, so, yeah, yeah, in principle it does value,
NOTE CONF
it does, um, yeah, it does suit one type thing.
That's why you use that same method and you saw
NOTE CONF
one of the graphs, right, it actually give you a
different response right then you know how there's red.
NOTE CONF
It's because of how you, how you approach is very
different.
NOTE CONF
Trivial in in nature, I do something different.
Right, but the point is like the the determination is
NOTE CONF
like so hinge on your understanding.
Not so much as the absolute truth.
NOTE CONF
Chain, not chain.
Depends on how you use Dots are not, you know,
NOTE CONF
simply that fast, depends on how you determine.
Right.
NOTE CONF
what.
Uh.
NOTE CONF
Uh supervisor, no, it's it's not the.
But and then it's the all the I I always
NOTE CONF
have one.
Unless you use the.
NOTE CONF
I No, that parameter is trying to select what to
compute some.
NOTE CONF
So I'm if I'm selecting say a 3, then I'm
looking at only the closest 3, not everything, and then
NOTE CONF
why.
So not because the squares are actually.
NOTE CONF
A feature one or feature two.
The distance of that dots, two dots is not exactly
NOTE CONF
a certain.
Yeah, I want to be like yeah but then there's
NOTE CONF
another sort of like.
Uh.
NOTE CONF
And I will determine this unknown doctor in passing that.
And And So you can just play around, it's so
NOTE CONF
much easier to just like play around and be it
would be plot, so I'm using P equals 23 for
NOTE CONF
both P and N.
And then I'll see how it comes out better.
NOTE CONF
And then obviously some some classical you see well given
that value if you use a class.
NOTE CONF
If you be give you different.
And that's like, all right.
NOTE CONF
Uh Um, maybe I could recreate this.
free Um OK, well, um, I, I'm going to.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Yeah
NOTE CONF